in this video we'll talk about how to
get logistic regression to work for
multi-class classification problems and
in particular want to tell you about an
algorithm called one versus all
classification what is a multi-class
classification problem here are some
examples let's say you want a learning
algorithm to automatically put your
email into different folders or to
automatically to hack your emails so you
might have different folders or
different tags for work email email from
your friends email from your family and
emails about your hobby and so here we
have a classification problem with four
classes which we might assign the
numbers the classes y equals one y
equals two y equals 3 and y equals 4 2
and another example for medical
diagnosis if a patient comes into your
office with you know maybe a stuffy nose
the possible diagnosis could be that
they're not ill maybe that's y equals 1
or they have a code 2 or they have a flu
and the third and final example if you
are using machine learning to classify
the weather you know maybe you want to
decide it the weather is sunny cloudy
rainy or snow or is going to be snow and
so in all of these examples Y can take
on a small number of discrete values
maybe one two three one two four and so
on and these are multi-class
classification problems and by the way
it doesn't really matter whether we
indexes at 0 1 2 3 or s 1 2 3 4 I tend
to index the my classes starting from 1
rather than starting from 0 but either
way where often it really doesn't matter
where as previously for a binary
classification problem our data sets
look like this for a multi-class
classification problem our data sets may
look like this where here I'm using
three different symbols to represent all
three classes so the question is given
the data set with three classes where
you know this is a example of one class
that's an example of a different class
and that's an example of yet a third
class how do we get a learning algorithm
to work for the setting we already know
how to do binary classification using
logistic regression we know how the you
know maybe for the straight line to
separate the positive and negative
classes using an idea called one versus
classification we can then take this and
make it work for multi-class
classification as well here's how one
versus all classification works and this
is also sometimes called one versus rest
let's say we have a training set like
that shown on the Left where we have 3
classes so if y equals 1 we do know that
when we try and go if y equals to the
square and y equals 3 then the cross
what we're going to do is take our
training set and turn this into three
separate binary classification problems
or turn this into three separate two
class classification problems so let's
start with class one which is a triangle
we're going to essentially create a new
sort of fake training set where it
crosses two and three get assigned to
the negative class and class one gets
assigned to the positive class so when
we create a new training set like that
shown on the right and we're going to
fit a classifier which I'm going to call
H subscript theta superscript 1 of X
we're here the triangles are the
positive examples and the circles are
the negative examples so think of the
triangles being assigned the value of 1
and the circles the sum of the value of
0 and we're just going to train a
standard logistic regression classifier
and maybe that will give us a decision
boundary that looks like that ok this
superscript 1 here says the class ones
that we're doing this for the triangles
of first clause next we do the same
favorite class to going to take the
squares and assign the squares as the
positive class and assign everything
else the triangles and crosses as a
negative class and then we fit a second
logistic regression classifier we call
this H of X superscript 2 where the
superscript 2 denotes that we're now
doing this treating the square class as
via positive class and maybe we get a
classifier like that and finally we do
the same thing for the third Clause and
fit a third classifier H superscript 3
of X and maybe this will give us a
decision boundary give us a classifier
that separates the positive and negative
examples like that
so to summarize what we've done is we'll
fit three classifiers so for I equals
one two three will fit a classifier H
superscript I subscript theta of X
there's trying to estimate what is the
probability that Y is equal to class I
given X and parametrized by theta right
so in the first instance for this first
one up here this classifier with
learning to recognize the triangles so
it's thinking of the triangles as a
positive class so X superscript one is
essentially trying to estimate what is
the probability that the Y is equal to 1
given X and parametrized by theta and
similarly this is treating you know the
square class is a positive class and so
it's trying to estimate the probability
that Y is equal to 2 and so on so we now
have three classifiers each of which was
trained to recognize one of the three
classes just to summarize what we're
done is with we want to train a logistic
regression classifier H superscript I of
X for each class I to predict the
probably y is equal to I finally to make
a prediction when we given a new input X
and we want to make a prediction what we
do is we just run all let's say three
won't run all three of our classifiers
on the input X and we then pick the
class I that maximizes a three so we
just you know basically pick the
classifier pick whichever one of the
three classifiers is most confident or
most enthusiastically says that in
things that has a red class so whichever
value of I gives us the highest
probability we then predict Y to be that
value
so that's it for multi-class
classification and one versus all method
and with this little method you can now
take the logistic regression classifier
and make it work on multi-class
classification problems as well